Artificial Intelligence is a rapidly emerging technology that is now used in a variety of ways by many companies, including Travelers. AI is based on a structure called a neural network that is highly efficient at performing advance algorithms to achieve accurate results. However, many do not know that the concept of neural networks is nothing groundbreaking. In fact, the first multilayered neural network was developed in 1975. The structure we use today is similar to the one that was designed 38 years ago! The reason that neural networks never became popular is simple: they were just too taxing on computers. It wasn’t until recently that GPUs (Graphical Processing Units) have become advanced enough to support these algorithms. With this new hardware, utilizing and training neural networks is far more efficient and rapid enough to be worthwhile.
The use of artificial intelligence and machine learning is very broad. For this discussion, I will focus on some of the ways in which Travelers could utilize this technology in the insurance industry. More specifically, I will discuss how the Auto Insurance industry could begin to use these technologies.

Auto Insurance can be a very expensive process – both to the customer and the company. In the case of an accident, it takes time and money to have an insurance agent survey the damage and make claims. This also becomes tricky when there are conflicting stories of the incident. But what if artificial intelligence could determine the cause of a crash just by using pictures of the aftermath? 
One of the ways that artificial intelligence is being used today is to create predictive video of what the program thinks will happen directly after a picture is taken. For example, the program can turn a picture of a duck in the water into a short video of the duck swimming around just by analyzing the picture. It can do this because the neural network has been shown so many different videos of ducks swimming that it can pretty accurately guess how things would play out based on the picture – much like a human could. But what if we could reverse engineer this technology?
There is the potential to save the auto insurance industry a lot of time and money by using artificial intelligence. If we were to train a neural network with the millions of videos of crashes that exist online and in insurance databases, we could create a system that could accurately predict the moments leading up to the crash. Furthermore, it could utilize the forensic evidence of the aftermath to its advantage – calculating the distance and angle of debris. In theory, this type of program could create a short yet very accurate video of the crash based on what it sees from the many pictures taken of the resulting aftermath. This could have enormous implications for auto insurance companies as it would be easier for insurance agents to understand what happened and there would be little reason to even send them onsite. This is all assuming, of course, that there was no video recording of the crash itself. In a way, this could help insurance companies to solve claims quickly and efficiently which is ultimately good for the customer and the entire business.
As I work at Travelers, I am constantly working on ways we can implement it into our company. I am mostly involved with the training of the neural networks that allows them to make accurate predictions. I know that this technology will only become more relevant as time goes on and I am excited to see where it goes and what people decide to use it for! That is, of course, unless we end up creating SkyNet.
